# Reforge

This repository contains the sources for the Reforge tool. You can use
this tool to quickly set up your project for spec-driven development using
an AI coding agent.

## Getting started

Download the latest release of the Reforge CLI, and make sure it is in your
`PATH` environment variable.

Then, run the following command to initialize your project:

```shell
reforge init
```

The tool will automatically ask for the agent you're using and deploy the
templates needed to start building software through specifications.

Read through the next section to learn how to use the templates.

As we're using more AI in software development it's becoming increasingly
frustrating to see that coding agents can't get the implementation right when
a task gets more complicated. There are many reasons why agents suck at
complex tasks, but one important reason this happens is because the agent
doesn't have the right context information to do a good job.

Language Models will get better, but this only increases the importance
of having the right context information for the agent, because without this,
the agent is only going to make wrong guesses about what the developer
means.

For this purpose, we came up with an approach where we build the correct
context for the coding agent through a series of increasingly detailed
prompts.

## How does it work?

The spec-driven development approach works like this:

- First, start with a `/spec` prompt in your coding agent. This prompt helps
  you specify on a feature level what you want to add to your software project.
  This builds a layer of context information containing functional
  requirements, architectural guidelines, and data structures.

- Next, we take the initial specification generated by the `/spec` prompt
  and extend it with a `/plan <identifier>` prompt. In this prompt we translate
  the specification into a technical design and implementation approach.

- Then, we'll use the `/tasks <identifier>` prompt to split the implementation
  plan into specific tasks that can be manually executed or executed by the
  agent to write code, run tests, document steps, etc.

- Finally, you can complete tasks manually or let the coding
  agent complete the work.

The prompts are created in such a way that the custom instructions for the
agent are automatically updated as the project grows. In a way, we self-teach
the agent about the project as you implement more features.

## Supported agents

Currently, we support setting Claude Code and Github Copilot. We may add
support for other agents in the future. Make sure to submit an issue with your
suggestions and comments!

## Frequently asked questions

- **Can features be documented on a backlog?**  
  We tested prompts that would use Github Issues to record features and
  implementation plans, but the results are mediocre at best. The problem
  lies in the fact that agents aren't typically connected to a backlog
  management tool. We found that agents work better if they can browse
  specs and plans as markdown files in the source repository.

- **What operating systems are supported?**  
  We support Windows, Mac, and Linux. The prompt templates themselves are
  saved as markdown files in your project, and Reforge isn't involved in
  using them.

- **Can I customize the prompt templates?**  
  You certainly can, we recommend you review the deployed prompt templates
  and modify them to suit your project. We've made some assumptions to help
  flatten the learning curve.

- **Are you using the tool yourself?**  
  We use the tool on this project to build the tool itself. While challenging
  at first, we've managed to improve the behavior quite quickly, proving that
  this approach works quite well.
