# Introduction

## Background

As we're using more AI in software development it's becoming increasingly
frustrating to see that coding agents can't get the implementation right when
a task gets more complicated. There are many reasons why agents suck, but one
important reason this happens is because the agent doesn't have the right
context information to do a good job.

Language Models will get better, but it this only increases the importance
of having the right context information for the agent, because without this,
the agent is only going to make wrong guesses about what the developer
means.

For this purpose, we came up with an approach where we build the correct
context for the coding agent through a series of increasingly detailed
prompts.

The approach follows this flow:

- First, we start with a `/spec` prompt. This prompt helps the developer
  specify on a feature level what they want to add to their software project.
  This builds a layer of context information containing functional
  requirements, architectural guidelines, and data structures.

- Next, we take the initial specification generated by the `/spec` prompt
  and extend it with a `/plan` prompt. In this prompt we translate the
  specification into a technical design and implementation approach.

- Then, we'll use the `/tasks` prompt to split the implementation plan into
  specific tasks that can be manually executed or executed by the agent
  to write code, run tests, document steps, etc.

- Finally, the developer can complete tasks by themselves or let the coding
  agent complete the work.

## Key requirements

Based on the flow described in the background section, we've identified the
following key requirements for this project:

1. The tool must help developers with deployment of prompt templates for
   Github Copilot or Claude Code.
2. The tool must allow developers to configure a different set of templates
   with their own guidelines.
3. Developers must be able to customize the prompt templates after they've
   been deployed.
4. The tool must help developers understand the templates that were deployed
   for the project.
5. The tool should help developers upgrade existing prompt templates with new
   versions of the same templates.
